= Klastfm

First of all: This is not an Amarok script in the common sense. Do not install this in Amarok! Read this file to get the idea!

This tool grabs your statistic from last.fm and merges it into your existing amarok database.

Since last.fm relies on MusicBrainz ( http://musicbrainz.org ) for tagging, in general it is a good idea to tag your media with MusicBrainz Picard ( http://musicbrainz.org/doc/MusicBrainz_Picard ) By tagging your music with Picard (or any other ID3 tagger using MusicBrainz) you will get the best results when using this script. All tracks not recognized by this script are skipped.

It will synchronize your playcount (how often did you listen to a specific track), the first and last played date of a track (with the accuracy of a few days), it will get the tags of last.fm and add them to your tracks and it will also score your tracks by some voodoo algorithm.

The idea is derived from "Last Sync" ( http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php/Last+Sync?content=65784 ). I think the idea is pretty cool, but "Last Sync" is too old to work with newer versions of amarok. The last version is from 2007 and the main problems are that it handles sqlite databases only (Amarok 1.x) and it uses the legacy last.fm api.

Bring some time! Since you will synchronize a lot with last.fm api this script will run a long time. For my account (ca. 27000 tracks) it needs nearly 2 hours!

Some more or less technical information why this script takes so long: It's last.fm fault :) You cannot ask the last.fm api "hey, tell me when I first listened to the song 'foo' from the band 'bar'". So you will have to ask "hey, tell me what songs did I listen to this week?" and then "hey, tell me what songs did I listen to last week?" and so on. You have to ask for all the weeks you submitted data to last.fm. After this the script checks the first and the last occurence of the track 'foo' of the artist 'bar'.

Listet on kde-apps.org http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=127016

Sourcecode available at github.com http://github.com/gauda/klastfm

= Howto

I tested on Kubuntu lucid with ruby 1.8.7 (2010-01-10 patchlevel 249) [x86_64-linux]

* BACKUP YOUR DATABASE! You have been warned! :)
* Copy config.yaml.example to config.yaml and edit it (add your last.fm api key!)
* Further configuration: By editing the config.yaml you have the possibility to disable the tagging and the setting of the first/ last listened at fields
* ruby klastfm.rb

= Dependencies on Kubuntu Lucid:

* sudo aptitude install ruby ruby1.8-dev mysql-client libmysqlclient-dev libopenssl-ruby rubygems
* sudo gem install mysql httparty progressbar activerecord logger --no-rdoc --no-ri

= Version

* 0.4 Refactored, added the possibility to grab tags from last.fm
* 0.3 Added the possibility to set first and last played date for each track
* 0.2 Added some more installation help
* 0.1 Initial commit

= Left to do

* Think of a better algorithm to score tracks http://amarok.kde.org/wiki/Fr:FAQ#How_are_track_ratings_determined.3F

= Credits

* Code by Johannes Leers http://www.gauda.de
* Thanks to Kevin Bocksrocker for the inspiration http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php/Last+Sync?content=65784
